The Pearsons correlation coefficient (r) is a measure of linear correlation between two variables. Its value lies between -1 and +1, -1 indicating total negative linear correlation, 0 indicating no linear correlation and 1 indicating total positive linear correlation. Furthermore, r is invariant under separate changes in location and scale of the two variables, implying that for a linear function the angle to the x-axis does not affect r.
To calculate r for two variables X and Y, one divides the covariance of X and Y by the product of their standard deviations.
The Spearmans rank correlation coefficient (ρ) is a measure of monotonic correlation between two variables, and is therefore better in catching nonlinear monotonic correlations than Pearsons r. Its value lies between -1 and +1, -1 indicating total negative monotonic correlation, 0 indicating no monotonic correlation and 1 indicating total positive monotonic correlation.
To calculate ρ for two variables X and Y, one divides the covariance of the rank variables of X and Y by the product of their standard deviations.
Similarly to Spearmans rank correlation coefficient, the Kendall rank correlation coefficient (τ) measures ordinal association between two variables. Its value lies between -1 and +1, -1 indicating total negative correlation, 0 indicating no correlation and 1 indicating total positive correlation.
To calculate τ for two variables X and Y, one determines the number of concordant and discordant pairs of observations. τ is given by the number of concordant pairs minus the discordant pairs divided by the total number of pairs.
Phik (φk) is a new and practical correlation coefficient that works consistently between categorical, ordinal and interval variables, captures non-linear dependency and reverts to the Pearson correlation coefficient in case of a bivariate normal input distribution. There is extensive documentation available here.
Cramérs V is an association measure for nominal random variables. The coefficient ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 indicating independence and 1 indicating perfect association. The empirical estimators used for Cramérs V have been proved to be biased, even for large samples. We use a bias-corrected measure that has been proposed by Bergsma in 2013 that can be found here.
is highly correlated with
other fields
missing values
is uniformly distributed
is an unsupported type, check if it needs cleaning or further analysis
Overview
Variables
Interactions
Correlations
Missing values
Sample
Reproduction
Analysis
started
finished
Duration
Version
Command line
Download configuration
Warnings
Number of variables
Number of observations
Missing cells
Duplicate rows
Total size in memory
Average record size in memory
Quantile statistics
Descriptive statistics
Distinct count
Unique
Missing
Infinite
Mean
Minimum
Maximum
Memory size
Toggle details
Value
Count
Frequency
Common values
Extreme values
Statistics
Histogram
Length
Max length
Median length
Mean length
Min length
Categorical
Real number
Unsupported
Toggle correlation descriptions
UNIQUE
UNIFORM
HIGH_CORRELATION
MISSING
and
has
values